[com7,in4] add regional modeling workflow for com1DFA (#1053)
avaframe/AvaFrame: docs/moduleCom7Regional.rst

smaller chunks). By default, this value is set to 2500 m. For each group, a bounding box is created from the maximum x-y extent of all release features in the group.
The value for ``bufferSize`` is then added to each direction (+x, -x, +y, -y). This buffer may be adjusted according to the expected maximum runout length of your avalanches -
a larger value will ensure that no simulation will exit its domain, but with the drawback of producing larger output files.

Algorithm
---------
The ``splitInputsMain`` function, which is called in ``runScripts/runSplitInputs.py``, performs the following steps:

1. Create central avalanche directory list
2. Set up avalanche directories
3. Split and write release areas to each directory
4. Clip and write DEM to each directory
5. Clip and write optional input to each directory (currently includes RES and ENT)
6. Divide release areas into scenarios
7. Write reports

To Run - Script based
---------------------
1. Prepare inputs in your ``<avalancheDir>/Inputs``
2. Configure settings in ``splitInputsCfg.ini`` (or local version ``local_splitInputsCfg.ini``)

> 3. Either set path to avalanche directory in ``avaframeCfg.ini`` (or local version ``local_avaframeCfg.ini``) or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Either set path to avalanche directory in your local copy of ``avaframeCfg.ini`` ( ``local_avaframeCfg.ini``) or
```

   call command below with the avalanche directory as argument
4. Execute from ``AvaFrame/avaframe`` directory:

.. code-block:: bash

    python runScripts/runSplitInputs.py

---------------

> Running multiple avalanche dirs

Reviewer: as it is a heading, shall we call it avalanche directories? or to be consistent if this is required here avalancheDirs?

===============================

Input
-----

> A directory structure containing pre-configured avalanche directories (containing an ``Inputs`` folder) is required. For input preparation use

Reviewer: consider a reference to the inputs section of com1DFA

        ├── sub_avalanche1/
        │   └── Inputs/
        │       ├── REL/*.shp
        │       └── *.asc or *.tif
        ├── sub_avalanche2/
        │   └── Inputs/
        │       ├── REL/*.shp
        │       └── *.asc or *.tif
        └── ...

Output
------
Outputs are organized in two levels:

**1. Merged rasters** and **2. Individual outputs (per sub_avalanche directory)**

Merged rasters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Configure in ``com7RegionalCfg.ini`` (or local):

.. code-block:: ini

    [GENERAL]
    mergeOutput = True
    mergeTypes = pfv # Available options: [ppr|pfv|pft|pta|FT|FV|P|FM|Vx|Vy|Vz|TA]
    mergeMethod = max  # Available options: [max|min|sum|count]

Produces merged rasters of all peakFile results found within the sub-avalanche directories, for each
``mergeTypes`` and ``mergeMethod`` configured, in ``<avalancheDir>/com7Regional/mergedRasters/``. The merged
raster combines output from ALL sub-avalanches.

Creates::

    avalancheDir
    ├── ....
    └── com7Regional/
        ├── sub_avalanche1/
        ...
        └── mergedRasters/ <- this one is created

Individual outputs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> After running com7 with the given module (e.g. :ref:`com1DFA <com1DFA>`), the standard output is located

Reviewer: are there currently other options?

within each of the sub-avalanche directories within e.g. ``<avalancheDir>/com7Regional/<avalancheDir>/Outputs/com1DFA``.

> Additionally, com7 provides the option of aggregating all output peakFiles and tSteps results into a single directory

Reviewer: com7Regional

for easier management, either through copying or moving the files after an executed run.

Configure in ``com7RegionalCfg.ini`` (or local):

.. code-block:: ini

    [GENERAL]
    copyPeakFiles = True
    moveInsteadOfCopy = False

Creates::

    avalancheDir
    ├── ....
    └── com7Regional/
        ├── sub_avalanche1/
        ...
        └── allPeakFiles/ <- this one is created

Configuration
-------------

> Three configuration files are used (locals are preferred if they exist):

Reviewer: not true for com1DFACfg.ini unless in the com7REgionalCfg.ini setDefaultConfig=False in the com1DFA override section

1. Main configuration (``avaframeCfg.ini``)
    - To set nCPUs for handling the amount of avalanche directories processed in parallel
    - Handle plot and other output generation
    
2. com7Regional configuration (``com7RegionalCfg.ini``)
    - Manages output aggregation and merged raster creation
    - Overrides com1DFA parameters if specified

3. com1DFA configuration (``com1DFACfg.ini``)
    - Standard simulation parameters

Processing
----------
Parallelization is handled through the concurrent.futures library, specifically the 
`ProcessPoolExecutor class <https://docs.python.org/3/library/concurrent.futures.html#concurrent.futures.ProcessPoolExecutor>`_. 

> In essence, tasks are executed concurrently within each input avalanche directory, based on the number of currently available CPUs. 

Reviewer: is it now sub_avalanche directories?

The maximum number of CPUs is set by the ``nCPU`` parameter in ``avaframeCfg.ini``. By default, to avoid nested parallelization, each 
avalanche directory is assigned a single CPU , essentially meaning that any variations (e.g. through different 
scenarios, parameter variations, etc.) within each avalanche directory are handled sequentially. As a consequence, if the number of 
variations is high, and the number of avaDirs to process is lower than ``nCPU``, it may be more efficient to run simulations with the 
standard ``runCom1DFA.py`` instead, to utilize its parallel processing of variations. Alternatively, advanced users may want to adjust the nCPU for 
variations in ``com7Regional.py``.

To Run
------
1. Prepare input directories, we recommend using the regional input management above
2. Configure settings in ``com7RegionalCfg.ini`` (or local version ``local_com7RegionalCfg.ini``)

> 3. Set path to avalanche directory in ``avaframeCfg.ini`` (or local version ``local_avaframeCfg.ini``)

Reviewer: same as above regarding local
